>>CHANTAL WESTERMAN: It's such
a pleasure to talk to you,
and I've been looking forward to
it and I want to tell you why.
All your books and
all your lectures,
despite the dark times
that so many people
say we live in now are
just headed for chaos,
you are so positive.
You have such an optimistic
view of the world.
Where do you find that?
>>GREGG BRADEN: I'm asked
that question many times.
For me personally,
my sense is that this
is this rare precious
moment in human history.
According to ancient texts,
it's unlike any moment
that we've known in
our recorded past.
And I think much of
my optimism comes
from the understanding of what
those who have come before us
truly had to say about
this time in history.
Almost universally ancient
texts and traditions
as diverse as they appear
and as old as they are,
they all converge-- they're all
pointing this time in history.
They say something big
is about to happen.
>>CHANTAL: That's true whether
it's Hindu or Sufi or Buddhism,
it's so fascinating.
They all lead in
the right direction.
What are those old texts?
>>BRADEN: Precisely.
I'll be very specific.
The ancient Essenes, the
authors of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
perhaps have some of
the clearest insights
into this time in history.
And through their
traditions such as we
find in the Dead Sea Scrolls
and Nag Hammadi Library
and the Aramaic translations
coming from the Middle
East, what we find
is that is diverse
as our belief systems
appear to be today,
there is a time where
they all converge.
They appear to stem from
a common understanding.
It goes back
approximately 4,000 years
before Christ, 6,000 years ago.
>>CHANTAL: Amazing.
>>BRADEN: And this
tradition is actually--
this lineage of wisdom
is actually traced back
in the Sumerian texts.
That's how old it is.
>>CHANTAL: Have we seen it?
Have we seen this text?
>>BRADEN: We have.
We've seen elements
of these texts,
and for me, this provides
a tremendous continuity
between the people of that
time, what we're living now,
because they looked from their
world ahead into our world
and offered us insights
into what we may expect
at this time in history
and what I believe
is an inner technology forgotten
science of inner wisdom
that allows us to
gracefully transcend
even the greatest challenges
at this time in history man
may offer.
That's my optimism.
>>CHANTAL: It's wonderful
optimism because one
of the things you say, which
I love to hear you talk more
about, when you
talk about science,
I think of-- what comes to my
mind and most people's minds I
think are numbers and
books and classes and--
compassion, you say,
is its own science.
>>BRADEN: In our
world today, science
is hypothesis and prediction
and testing time after time
after time.
And if this is so each time,
then we say it is a science.
Without mathematics,
I believe we
can do the same thing with
very ancient technologies
such as prayer, such as
compassion, such as the lost
wisdom of healing through
thought, feeling, and emotion.
No mathematics is required.
What we can say is
that as we become--
and this is the
difference between what
we do in the West today and
what the ancients were viewing--
their view of the world was
that we become the elements
that we most choose to
experience in our lives.
In the West, we're
conditioned to do.
Just tell me what to do.
Do this, do that.
So as we become the quality of
thought, feeling, and emotion
and that comprises
compassion, then we
can say if this is true,
then this is the outcome
and that is the science.
>>CHANTAL: For just a second,
I didn't understand you.
But what you're talking about
is if we do these things
and then there is proof as a
result of the actions we take--
>>BRADEN: Certainly.
Let me share with
you an example.
One of the technologies that
was lost 1,700 years ago
is a mode of prayer.
It's very, very
different from the way
that we look at prayer today.
This mode of prayer has
no outward expression.
There are no words.
It's something that we become.
It's based on the
technology of feeling--
and I'll just say
it very briefly--
feeling that the
prayer has already
been answered rather than asking
that the prayer come to pass
or rather than asking
for intervention.
>>CHANTAL: So then it's
a prayer of gratitude
rather than supplication?
>>BRADEN: And-- yes--
and it is a prayer based
on feeling rather than thought.
So rather than saying
dear God please let there
be peace in our world--
>>CHANTAL: Or thank you
for the peace in the world.
>>BRADEN: Well, using
this lost mode of prayer,
we would have the
emotion and the feeling
that the peace is already
there as well as the thought.
>>CHANTAL: Oh, I see.
>>BRADEN: Now having said that,
what the ancients said, what
quantum science
now validates, is
that in every
moment of our lives,
we live many, many, many
simultaneous moments
that we are not aware of.
This was first postulated
1957 by a gentleman
named Hugh Everett the Third
at Princeton University.
He called them
parallel possibilities.
And to many people, it
sounds like science fiction
and very irrelevant
in our world.
What quantum science now
believes is that many times
each day, we move
personally, individually,
and collectively in and out of
many, many possible outcomes
for the events that we
experience in our lives.
We do it individually
in the way we
respond to the
challenges of life,
and our individual responses
become the collective response.
What that means--
if this is true,
it means that for
every disaster--
catastrophic destruction is
being predicted right now.
There are very well
respected researchers
that are predicting a loss of
2/3 of the world's population
within the next three years to
famine, disease, and weather
patterns and warfare.
For every prediction
like that, it
means that there is
another possibility--
and the ancients are
very clear about this--
where we've outgrown
the word war
in our vocabulary
and the weather
patterns are so gentle that
every mouth of every woman
and child and man is fed every
day because the crops grow that
well.
Where our technology
serves us rather
than taking our power away from
us-- and the question has been,
how do we move back and forth
between those possibilities.
How do we bring a
possibility into focus
where Y2K does not
disable our society?
Where warfare does not take
that toll in human life?
Or weather patterns don't
wreak havoc upon our world?
>>CHANTAL: I just
need an example
of a parallel possibility.
What would be an example?
Something where I
would be in a situation
and I'd say I can do
this or this-- do this
and then I do this one?
>>BRADEN: When we
are experiencing
the unfolding of an event,
I'm going to give you a case
history here in just a moment.
And it appears that the outcome
for that event is inevitable.
It's already unfolding.
The momentum is
already there, and all
of a sudden for some unexplained
reason that event changes.
That is an example of
what we call moving
into a parallel possibility.
November 13, 1998, the
world woke up that morning
to newspaper headlines that
said it was inevitable.
It was a matter of time
only before US forces would
lead an airborne strike
into Iraq in response
to the breakdown of the
weapons inspections,
Richard Butler and the whole
thing was happening there.
What history will
show is that there's
a mystery that
unfolded that night,
and I'm going to share
this mystery as an example
to explain how this works.
Because that night President
Clinton did in fact order
US war planes into Iraq.
Thirty minutes into
the mission, he
announced an unprecedented order
for those planes to stand down,
which is the military term for
make a U-turn and come home,
and that night no
ordinance was dropped.
There were no bombs
dropped anywhere.
No lives were lost to US forces.
And historians are mystified as
to precisely why that happened.
What history may not show
is that on that same night
during the same hours, a
mass prayer vigil coordinated
on the worldwide web
involving at least 75 nations
and several hundred
thousand people
were using this mode of prayer
that was lost 1,700 years ago.
And skeptics say
it's a coincidence
that it was during that time
frame those war planes came
home on the one hand.
And as a scientist, I would
tend to agree with them
except that the
correlations are so high
and we've seen this so many
times-- the Israelis did
studies with us back in the
1980s during the Lebanese war.
It's been very well documented
that when masses of humans have
a common feeling-- this is
very different than thought--
these people weren't praying
saying let the war stop,
don't let people die, please
don't send the planes to Iraq.
They simply had a feeling of
peace that's already here.
And in the presence
of that peace,
I believe all that can go
forward that night was peace
and no lives were
lost US warplanes.
>>CHANTAL: Let me get back
to the power of prayer
for a moment because I'm
always interested in the power
of prayer.
Mary Baker Eddy, who taught us
a great deal about the Christian
Science faith, has
said that matter
doesn't matter so that in
other words, it doesn't exist.
It doesn't have an
intelligence of its own
so that it can be influenced
by prayer, by thought.
Is that what you're saying?
>>BRADEN: We're often told
that we create our reality.
>>CHANTAL: True.
>>BRADEN: And that our
thoughts, feelings,
and emotions are having an
impact on the world around us.
If what the ancients
say is correct
and what quantum
science is now saying,
we were close and not quite
accurate because what they say
is that we don't
create anything.
They say we don't
create a reality.
All the realities
are already created
and already playing
out at the same time.
And what we do is we very
skillfully and masterfully
bring certain possibilities
in the focus, and we say,
oh, this is my world.
And when we do that,
we release the one
that we lived up
until that moment.
I'm going to use illness
as an example of this.
Because this is recorded
on video very clearly,
we have a video from a
medicineless hospital
in Beijing, China, of a
woman with a bladder cancer.
So there's a more
inside of her bladder.
And through the magic of
ultrasound, the technology
of ultrasound, we
can actually peer
into her body in the
presence of a mode of prayer
thought, feeling, and emotion.
What happens is
the practitioners
working with her--
and they are trained
in Qigong, which includes
thought, feeling, and emotion.
In the presence
of practitioners,
what we see in less than
three minutes is that tumor
disappears from her bladder
before our very eyes in real
time programming--
it's not lapse--
in very real time.
According to the
old traditions, we
would say our
thoughts, feelings,
and emotions made that go away.
>>CHANTAL: Did they?
>>BRADEN: Western
science has no--
can't account for
what they're seeing.
Quantum science and
the ancient traditions
say we didn't make that go away.
We didn't impose our
will upon that cancer.
What we did-- what
those practitioners did
is they had a thought, feeling,
and an emotion of prayer that
said this bladder has no cancer.
This bladder is healthy.
It's vital.
It's whole.
It's complete.
And in the presence of
that very, very clear mode
of prayer, what they
did was they attracted
the outcome of a healthy
bladder and that overlaid
the possibility--
they didn't judge it
as right, wrong, good, or bad.
They didn't say bad
cancer, go away, and try
to kill it or cut it out.
They allowed for
its possibility,
and they said through
their feeling--
they had the feeling
of what it feels
like to be in the presence of
a woman with a healthy bladder.
And in that feeling
we see this real time.
We see it begin to quiver,
fade, and disappear.
And all of a sudden in three
minutes, two minutes and 40
seconds, that bladder
is free of the cancer.
And that is the power of that
prayer for an individual.
>>CHANTAL: So is there a
difference between that
and what Mary Baker Eddy and
the Christian Science faith
believes?
It does.
>>BRADEN: I believe that
it's probably very similar.
>>CHANTAL: Interesting.
>>BRADEN: And not
having spoken with Mary
and not being a
Christian Scientist,
I'm reluctant to
say specifically.
What I would say is they may
be using a principle that they
have not fully understood or
developed and that still works.
And that's the beauty of
this ancient technology
is we don't have
to be scientists.
As we choose to honor
life in all forms,
in all worlds, the thought,
feeling, and emotion that
comes from that,
those practitioners
didn't hate the cancer.
They weren't angry, and
they weren't in judgment.
They allowed for
its possibility,
and they had the feeling as if
that cancer had never existed.
And this is clearly what the
ancients have [? invited us. ?]
If we want peace in our
world, have the feeling
of peace in our hearts, and our
world mirrors that back to us.
In that way, we attract
the outcome of that peace.
>>CHANTAL: Now I
live in Los Angeles,
and I can remember
a couple of years
ago when that El Nina I
think they called it--
the rainstorm swept across.
And we in California
thought it'll never hit us.
It devastated California--
crops and roads
and my roof caved in and
roofs all over California
and swept all
across our country.
Could we have stopped that
with this kind of prayer?
Is it possible?
>>BRADEN: From this perspective,
rather than stopping it--
again this is the relationship.
>>CHANTAL: Oh, that's right.
>>BRADEN: Now we're
becoming-- we're
getting concrete with these
very esoteric concepts.
>>CHANTAL: It's like saying bad
tumor, go away in the bladder.
I don't want to do that.
>>BRADEN: What these
scenes-- the scene
said to us that we are earth.
Our bodies are the earth,
nothing more, nothing less.
And whatever
happens to the earth
is mirrored in our bodies, and
whatever we do to our bodies
is mirrored back to us
through the world around us.
As we affirm life in our
bodies, the world around us
mirrors that back through
gentle weather patterns,
graceful seismic activity,
crops that grow in their season,
and furnish food
and healthy bodies.
>>CHANTAL: Now I hear
you, but I don't think
you're answering my question.
And I take your point, and
I think it's fascinating.
I'm asking could we if we had
mirrored something differently
in our bodies, if we had done
that sort of mode of prayer,
could that have not happened?
I watch what's happening in
North Carolina right now.
>>BRADEN: I'm seeing it as well.
>>CHANTAL: It's devastating
the people in that flood area.
>>BRADEN: From the
perspective of the ancients
and what they were saying
to us, those things
are happening, showing
us something about what's
happening in our bodies.
So-- because Earth mirrors
what we have become.
So if we have become
the unsettled patterns
of thought, feeling, and
emotion in our personal lives
and our individual
lives with our families
and friends and those that
we love and hold dear,
that will be mirrored back to us
through the patterns of nature
in weather in seismic activity.
>>CHANTAL: I understand.
>>BRADEN: To answer
your question,
if we're choosing to
move away from that kind
of catastrophic weather pattern,
what they invited us to do
was to find the way to
reconcile in our bodies
our individual relationships.
That's the science
of compassion.
Every relationship
that crosses our path
in each moment and
each day offers us
an opportunity of compassion,
forgiveness, understanding.
It's not about complacency.
It's not about rolling over and
letting everything just roll
over us.
There is a knowable, accessible
science to these things.
So to-- in response
to your question,
rather than saying
here comes a hurricane.
We got to pray and stop it.
That may be a path
and it may work.
And what they were
actually saying to us
was that the world becomes
a barometer of what
we've become in our lives.
And when we see
those kinds of things
happen and we see the civil
wars and the religious wars
and when we see the rogue
weather patterns if we have
the wisdom to recognize
what it's saying to us,
it's saying that
collectively something in us
is asking for healing.
And this is the power
of the individual.
Our conditioning is we've
got to build big machines,
use big science, go
out there and fix it.
And what the ancients say,
the Buddhist traditions,
the Christian in their
purest traditions--
in their pure sense--
the Christian traditions,
the Muslim traditions,
Native American traditions
are inviting us to
find the healing here
and to know that it's mirrored
in the world out there.
And our quantum physics
gives us the mechanism.
It says this is how that works.
>>CHANTAL: So they
go hand in hand.
>>BRADEN: Yes.
So I don't want to get
off a hook too easy.
Does that answer your question?
If it doesn't, it's important
to clarify it I think.
>>CHANTAL: Well, I think people
watching this broadcast would
say, well, then
all we have to do
is go into that particular
mode of prayer that we feel
and we can prevent those
things from happening.
That's what I'm concerned
an audience would think.
>>BRADEN: And this
is what's so subtle,
and this is why I asked you the
question so we can clarify it.
It's so subtle and
it's so powerful.
We're conditioned to do in
this world to go into a prayer
when something's wrong.
It needs to be fixed.
>>CHANTAL: We are.
>>BRADEN: And what
the ancient said
is that now this
time in history,
we have outgrown the doing.
Now we are invited to become.
We walk that prayer
day in and day out.
There's never time
that we're not
in prayer because that
prayer is a feeling.
It's the feeling of
peace in our bodies.
compassion, the honoring
of all life and all levels.
And as we become the prayer
we walk and leave that prayer.
We may fully expect that the
world mirrors that back to us.
>>CHANTAL: And what happens if
there's a certain group of us
who does do precisely that?
Let's make it a pretty
healthy sized group
because I think a
tremendous number of people
all over the world--
>>BRADEN: I know right
where this is going.
It's a great question.
Go ahead.
>>CHANTAL: Are trying to
fill the holes in our souls.
So what if a group
of us does that,
lives this life
you're talking about,
and then there's another
group out there that doesn't.
Because they don't, will
we suffer the consequences?
>>BRADEN: Let's make
this very concrete
and go back to one of
our previous examples.
November 13, 1998, a vast
majority of military thinking
chose to go into an
armed conflict in Iraq.
>>CHANTAL: Yes.
>>BRADEN: And a few 100,000
people in 75 countries--
we don't know
precisely the number.
We know how many
web hits there were.
We don't know how many
people were at each computer.
So we're several
100,000 web hits--
were holding the thought,
feeling, and emotion--
were coming from the place,
were holding this prayer,
they weren't saying
stop anything.
They were giving thanks for
the peace that already exists
in our world, and
in the presence
of that peace from a few
people, that military action
did not go forward.
Now, the Israelis in
1980s were actually
quantifying this
kind of information
during the Lebanese war.
They had individuals trained
in this mode of prayer.
They would station them
throughout their country,
and when the prayers were
occurring simultaneously,
terrorists stopped--
the terrorism stopped.
Traffic accidents
dropped dramatically.
Crimes-- violent crimes against
persons and the national stock
market skyrocketed.
And when they stopped praying,
the terrorism began again.
The crimes against
persons began again.
The hospital's emergency rooms
showed there was an effect.
They did this enough
times to demonstrate
that there was a correlation.
The US did the same thing with
24 cities between 1984 and '85,
and what they found
was this, that there
is a mathematical correlation.
So I'll give you the
numbers, and then we'll
make it a little more concrete.
When the square root of 1/10
of 1% of a given population
becomes this mode
of prayer, that
is when we begin
to feel the effect.
And we're not
mathematicians here,
so what that means is for
a city of a million people
when as few as 100 people
out of that million--
of one million people, when
they become this mode of prayer,
that's when we begin
to feel the effects.
And in a world population--
a global population
of approximately 8
billion or so people,
it means that we begin
to feel the effects.
Obviously the more people are
doing it the [NO AUDIO] effects
approximately 8,000 people
synchronized, coordinated
in this mass mode of prayer.
And we now know the reason is
because our consciousness is
connected.
We are all one.
That's the oneness.
There is a measurable
relationship that
exists as human consciousness.
Although we have many
bodies walking the earth,
there's only one of us here.
And when a certain
percentage of that one of us
attains and chooses this
modality of thought, feeling,
and emotion, the whole
benefits from it.
>>CHANTAL: Is it a question
in some cases of simply
re-attuning our bodies
or retuning our bodies
in a certain way?
>>BRADEN: Tuning.
Well, some of the
concepts-- now I
come from a world of
science and engineering,
and if this sounds
complex, it's my inability
to convey in very simple terms.
We don't have to know
any of the numbers.
We don't have to
know any statistics.
Quantum science simply
has giving us a mechanism.
We don't even have to know that.
We are simply invited to honor
all life in the presence of one
another as we walk
this Earth in the time
that we have together
honoring all life those formed
and those yet to be formed.
And as we do that, that is what
I believe is the re-attuning.
>>CHANTAL: I see.
>>BRADEN: Because the only
way to attune to the divine
is to honor the
principle of life.
>>CHANTAL: Well, I certainly
love the way your mind works,
and I love your
optimism for our future.
>>BRADEN: Well, thank you.
Thank you for being
such a gracious host,
and you've been very,
very easy to speak to.
I appreciate that.
>>CHANTAL: You've brought his
great wisdom today I think.
>>BRADEN: Thank you.
>>CHANTAL: Thanks.